IGNITE-14397 Documents spring-tx integration. (#8948)
apache/ignite: docs/_docs/extensions-and-integrations/spring/spring-tx.adoc

// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
// contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
// this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
// The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
// (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
// the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
// http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
// distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
// WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
// See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
// limitations under the License.

> = Apache Ignite With Spring Transactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Apache Ignite with Spring Transactions
```

== Overview

> http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/current/spring-framework-reference/html/transaction.html[Spring Transactions, window="_blank"]
> abstraction allows you to use declarative transaction management to concentrate on business logic rather than
> transaction life-cycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
link:http://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/current/spring-framework-reference/html/transaction.html[Spring transactions,window=_blank] abstraction allows you to use a declarative transaction management to concentrate on business logic rather than transaction life-cycle.
```

> Apache Ignite provides an extension - `ignite-spring-tx-ext` - that allows you to manage
> https://ignite.apache.org/docs/latest/key-value-api/transactions#performing-transactions[Apache Ignite Transactions, window="_blank"]
> through Spring Transactions abstraction. The mentioned integration is achieved by providing implementations of the Spring
> Transactions `TransactionManager` interface. There are two such implementations: `SpringTransactionManager` and
> `IgniteClientSpringTransactionManager`, which use Apache Ignite node or Apache Ignite thin client to connect to an
> Apache Ignite cluster and manage Apache Ignite transactions, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apache Ignite provides the `ignite-spring-tx-ext` extension that allows to manage link:https://ignite.apache.org/docs/latest/key-value-api/transactions#performing-transactions[Apache Ignite transactions,window=_blank]
through Spring Transactions abstraction. The mentioned integration is achieved by providing implementations of the Spring
Transactions `TransactionManager` interface. There are two such implementations: `SpringTransactionManager` and
`IgniteClientSpringTransactionManager`, which use Apache Ignite node or Apache Ignite thin client to connect to an
Apache Ignite cluster and manage Apache Ignite transactions, respectively.
```

> To enable declarative transaction management in your Spring application, you need to create and configure
> `SpringTransactionManager` or `IgniteClientSpringTransactionManager` bean in the Spring application context. The choice
> of implementation depends on your preferable way to access the Apache Ignite cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable declarative transaction management in your Spring application, create and configure
`SpringTransactionManager` or `IgniteClientSpringTransactionManager` bean in the Spring application context. The choice of implementation depends on your preferable way to access the Apache Ignite cluster.
```

== Maven Configuration

> If you are using Maven to manage dependencies in your project, you can add Spring Transactions extension dependencies to
> an application's `pom.xml` file like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using Maven to manage dependencies in your project, you can add Spring Transactions extension dependencies to the application's `pom.xml` file as follows:
```

[NOTE]
====

> For Apache Ignite versions earlier than `2.11.0`, the `ignite-spring-tx-ext` dependency must be added to
> classpath before `ignite-spring`, due to duplication of Spring Transactions integration classes. If you are using Maven
> to manage dependencies, it just needs to place `ignite-spring-tx-ext` before `ignite-spring` dependency in an
> application's `pom.xml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Apache Ignite versions earlier than `2.11.0`, the `ignite-spring-tx-ext` dependency must be added to classpath before `ignite-spring`, due to duplication of Spring Transactions integration classes. If you are using Maven to manage dependencies, place `ignite-spring-tx-ext` before the `ignite-spring` dependency in the application's `pom.xml` file.
```

====

[tabs]
--
tab:pom.xml[]
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.ignite</groupId>
    <artifactId>ignite-spring-tx-ext</artifactId>
    <version>${ignite-spring-tx-ext.version}</version>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.ignite</groupId>
    <artifactId>ignite-spring</artifactId>
    <version>${ignite.version}</version>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.ignite</groupId>
    <artifactId>ignite-core</artifactId>
    <version>${ignite.version}</version>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-tx</artifactId>
    <version>${spring.version}</version>
</dependency>
----
--

> Replace `${ignite-spring-tx-ext.version}`, `${spring.version}` and
> `${ignite.version}` with an actual version of Apache Ignite Spring Transactions extension, Spring Transactions and
> Apache Ignite dependency you are interested in, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `${ignite-spring-tx-ext.version}`, `${spring.version}`, and `${ignite.version}` with an actual version of Apache Ignite Spring Transactions extension, Spring Transactions, and Apache Ignite dependency you are interested in, respectively.
```

== Apache Ignite Node Transaction Manager Configuration
This chapter shows how to set up `SpringTransactionManager` that relies on Apache Ignite node to connect to the cluster
and manage transactions. The configuration consists of two steps -
link:extensions-and-integrations/spring/spring-tx#cluster-connection-configuration[cluster connection configuration]
and link:extensions-and-integrations/spring/spring-tx#transaction-concurrency-mode-configuration[transaction concurrency mode configuration].

=== Cluster Connection Configuration

> Cluster connection configuration defines Apache Ignite node that `SpringTransactionManager` will use to access the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cluster connection configuration defines Apache Ignite node that `SpringTransactionManager` uses to access the cluster.
```

To do this, you can use the following approaches.

[NOTE]
====

> Mixing of multiple approaches is illegal and results in an exception during manager startup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mixing of multiple approaches is incorrect and results in the exception during the manager startup.
```

====

[discrete]

> === 1. Specifying name of the manually started Apache Ignite node instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== 1. Specifying Name of the Manually Started Apache Ignite Node Instance
```

@EnableTransactionManagement
public class SpringApplicationConfiguration {
    @Bean
    public SpringTransactionManager transactionManager() {
        SpringTransactionManager mgr = new SpringTransactionManager();

        mgr.setIgniteInstanceName("<name of the Apache Ignite node instance>");

        return mgr;
    }
}
----
tab:XML[]
[source,xml]
----
<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
       xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
       xmlns:tx="http://www.springframework.org/schema/tx"
       xsi:schemaLocation="
           http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans.xsd
           http://www.springframework.org/schema/tx http://www.springframework.org/schema/tx/spring-tx.xsd">
    <-- Provide Apache Ignite instance name. -->
    <bean id="transactionManager" class="org.apache.ignite.transactions.spring.SpringTransactionManager">
        <property
            name="igniteInstanceName"
            value="<name of the Apache Ignite node instance>"/>
    </bean>

    <-- Use annotation-driven transaction configuration. -->
    <tx:annotation-driven/>
</beans>
----
--

[discrete]

> === 2.  Specifying Apache Ignite node configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== 2.  Specifying Apache Ignite Node Configuration
```

> In this case Apache Ignite node instance will be started automatically by the manager based on provided configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, Apache Ignite node instance is started automatically by the manager based on provided configuration.
```

        mgr.setConfiguration(new IgniteConfiguration()
            .setIgniteInstanceName("<name of the Ignite node instance>")
            // Other required configuration parameters.
        );

        return mgr;
    }
}
----
tab:XML[]
[source,xml]
----
<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
       xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
       xmlns:tx="http://www.springframework.org/schema/tx"
       xsi:schemaLocation="
           http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans.xsd
           http://www.springframework.org/schema/tx http://www.springframework.org/schema/tx/spring-tx.xsd">
    <-- Provide configuration bean. -->
    <bean id="transactionManager" class="org.apache.ignite.transactions.spring.SpringTransactionManager">
        <property name="configuration">
            <bean id="gridCfg" class="org.apache.ignite.configuration.IgniteConfiguration">
                ...
            </bean>
        </property>
    </bean>

    <-- Use annotation-driven transaction configuration. -->
    <tx:annotation-driven/>
</beans>
----
--

[discrete]

> === 3. Specifying path to Apache Ignite XML node configuration file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== 3. Specifying Path to the Apache Ignite XML Node Configuration File
```

> In this case Apache Ignite node instance will be started automatically by the manager based on provided configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, Apache Ignite node instance is started automatically by the manager based on the provided configuration.
```

        SpringTransactionManager mgr = new SpringTransactionManager();

        mgr.setConfigurationPath("<path to an Apache Ignite configuration XML file (path can be absolute or relative to `IGNITE_HOME`)>")

        return mgr;
    }
}
----
tab:XML[]
[source,xml]
----
<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
       xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
       xmlns:tx="http://www.springframework.org/schema/tx"
       xsi:schemaLocation="
           http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans.xsd
           http://www.springframework.org/schema/tx http://www.springframework.org/schema/tx/spring-tx.xsd">
    <-- Provide configuration file path. -->
    <bean id="transactionManager" class="org.apache.ignite.transactions.spring.SpringTransactionManager">
        <property
            name="configurationPath"
            value="<path to an Apache Ignite configuration XML file (path can be absolute or relative to `IGNITE_HOME`)"/>
    </bean>

    <-- Use annotation-driven transaction configuration. -->
    <tx:annotation-driven/>
</beans>
----
--

[NOTE]
====

> If no connection configuration is specified, `SpringTransactionManager` will use Apache Ignite node instance with the
> default name. If it does not exist, an exception will be thrown during the `SpringTransactionManager` startup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no connection configuration is specified, `SpringTransactionManager` uses Apache Ignite node instance with the default name. If it does not exist, an exception is thrown during the `SpringTransactionManager` startup.
```

====

[IMPORTANT]
====
[discrete]

> No matter what configuration approach you chose, the same Apache Ignite node instance must be used to both initialize the
> transaction manager and perform transactional operations. In case Apache Ignite node was started by the transaction manager,
> you can obtain its instance in your application through `Ignition.ignite("<name of the Apache Ignite node instance>");`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless the configuration approach you chose, the same Apache Ignite node instance must be used to initialize the transaction manager and perform the transactional operations. In case Apache Ignite node was started by the transaction manager, you can obtain its instance in your application through `Ignition.ignite("<name of the Apache Ignite node instance>");`.
```

====

> === Transaction concurrency mode configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Transaction Concurrency Mode Configuration
```

> The transaction concurrency mode configuration defines the
> https://ignite.apache.org/docs/latest/key-value-api/transactions#concurrency-modes-and-isolation-levels[Apache Ignite
> transaction concurrency mode, window="_blank"]
> that a manager will apply to all transactions that it processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transaction concurrency mode configuration defines the link:https://ignite.apache.org/docs/latest/key-value-api/transactions#concurrency-modes-and-isolation-levels[Apache Ignite
transaction concurrency mode,window=_blank] that a manager applies to all transactions that it processes.
```

        SpringTransactionManager mgr = new SpringTransactionManager();

        mgr.setTransactionConcurrency(TransactionConcurrency.OPTIMISTIC);

        return mgr;
    }
}
----
tab:XML[]
[source,xml]
----
<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
       xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
       xmlns:tx="http://www.springframework.org/schema/tx"
       xsi:schemaLocation="
           http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans.xsd
           http://www.springframework.org/schema/tx http://www.springframework.org/schema/tx/spring-tx.xsd">
    <-- Provide Apache Ignite instance name. -->
    <bean id="transactionManager" class="org.apache.ignite.transactions.spring.SpringTransactionManager">
        <!-- Here is appropriate connection configuration. -->
        <property name="transactionConcurrency" value="OPTIMISTIC"/>
    </bean>

    <-- Use annotation-driven transaction configuration. -->
        <tx:annotation-driven/>
</beans>
----
--

[NOTE]
====
If no transaction concurrency mode configuration is specified, `PESSIMISTIC` concurrency mode will be used.
====

> In case you need to support multiple transaction concurrency modes in your application, you need to create separate
> transaction managers for each transaction concurrency mode that you need, and for each Spring transaction specify the
> manager that will process it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you need to support multiple transaction concurrency modes in your application, create separate transaction managers for each transaction concurrency mode that you need, and for each Spring transaction specify the manager that will process it.
```

            </bean>
        </property>
    </bean>

    <-- Provide Apache Ignite client instance. -->
    <bean id="transactionManager" class="org.apache.ignite.transactions.spring.IgniteClientSpringTransactionManager">
        <property name="clientInstance" ref="igniteClientBean"/>
    </bean>

    <-- Use annotation-driven transaction configuration. -->
    <tx:annotation-driven/>
</beans>
----
--

[IMPORTANT]
====
[discrete]
The same Apache Ignite thin client instance must be used to initialize the transaction manager and to perform
transactional operations.
====

=== Transaction Concurrency Mode Configuration
Transaction concurrency mode configuration for `IgniteClientSpringTransactionManager` is performed the same way as for
link:extensions-and-integrations/spring/spring-tx#transaction-concurrency-mode-configuration[SpringTransactionManager]
that uses Apache Ignite node instance to access the cluster.

== Examples

The example of using Apache Ignite Spring Transactions integration is available on link:https://github.com/apache/ignite-extensions/tree/master/modules/spring-tx-ext/examples/main/java/org/apache/ignite/transactions/spring/examples[GitHub, window="_blank"].

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we remove unnecessary empty lines?

Author: Sure. Done.

> The example of using Apache Ignite Spring Transactions integration is available on link: https://github.com/apache/ignite-extensions/tree/master/modules/spring-tx-ext/examples/main/java/org/apache/ignite/transactions/spring/examples[GitHub, windows="_blank"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example of using Apache Ignite Spring Transactions integration is available on link:https://github.com/apache/ignite-extensions/tree/master/modules/spring-tx-ext/examples/main/java/org/apache/ignite/transactions/spring/examples[GitHub,window=_blank].
```
